Upgrade the Dart/Flutter SDK to v4 (#2599)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/flutter/index.mdx

title: Flutter
---

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-primer" />

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

The Flutter SDK is a Prelease and is under improvements and testing, the latest stable version is the Dart SDK `v3.0.1`

</Alert>

Get the SDK from [pub.dev](https://pub.dev/packages/sentry_flutter) by adding the following to your `pubspec.yaml`:

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-install" />

Import `Sentry` and initialize it:

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-config" />

Capture a test exception:

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-verify" />

### Resources

> Flutter has extensive documentation, including a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Flutter website has extensive documentation, including a
```

We can make a PR there to update to 4.0.0 (I've updated the current version)

Get the SDK from from [pub.dev](https://pub.dev/packages/sentry) by adding the following to your `pubspec.yaml`:

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-install" />

Import `Sentry` and initialize it:

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-config" />

Run the whole app in a zone to capture all uncaught errors:

```dart
import 'dart:async';
import 'package:sentry/sentry.dart';

// Wrap your 'runApp(MyApp())' as follows:

void main() async {
  runZonedGuarded(
    () => runApp(MyApp()),
    (error, stackTrace) {

>       Sentry.captureException(

Author: ```suggestion
      await Sentry.captureException(
```

```yml
dependencies:

>   sentry: ">=4.0.0 <5.0.0"

Reviewer: We could just use this syntax now:

```suggestion
  sentry: ^4.0.0
```

Catch Flutter specific errors by subscribing to `FlutterError.onError`:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/foundation.dart';
import 'package:sentry/sentry.dart';

FlutterError.onError = (details, {bool forceReport = false}) {

>   Sentry.captureException(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  await Sentry.captureException(
```

```dart
FlutterError.onError = (details, {bool forceReport = false}) {
  await Sentry.captureException(

>     throwable: details.exception,

Reviewer: Is `throwable` the right name in Dart? Sounds like a Java thingy.
Given that `captureException` is the name, maybe `exception` would be ideal (even though in Dart it could be a String even)

Author: yeah, true, whats about just `error`? https://api.dart.dev/stable/2.10.2/dart-core/Error-class.html this is the base class, but maybe keeping `exception` one less breaking changes

Capture a test exception:

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-verify" />

### Resources

> Flutter has extensive documentation, which includes a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flutter has extensive documentation, including a
```

> [cookbook on how to integrate with Sentry version earlier than 4.0.0](https://flutter.dev/docs/cookbook/maintenance/error-reporting).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[cookbook on integrating with a Sentry version earlier than 4.0.0](https://flutter.dev/docs/cookbook/maintenance/error-reporting).
```

### Resources

Flutter has extensive documentation, which includes a

> [cookbook on how to integrate with Sentry version earlier than 4.0.0](https://flutter.dev/docs/cookbook/maintenance/error-reporting).

Author: TODO: submit PR to flutter cookbook
